title: Listen To Your Body
date: 2022-02-11
category: General


Listen to your body. This seems like a simple phrase but it really has wide implication on my day to day life. There have been plenty of times where this phrase has been disregarded.

For example, as a student it seemed like nearly a badge of honor to sacrifice sleep over homework. As a sophomore in highschool, there was an AP US History project that I (conveniently) started the night before it's due. I originally chose to draw several large (around A1 paper size) pencil drawings depicting various Civil War battles. Now, I still liked to draw at this point in my life, but it's arduous work to draw with pencil. This was likely one of my first (near) all-nighters and, with a good nights rest beforehand, was almost invigorating. I didn't finished all the drawings, but figured it was better than what I had the day before. 

Being young affords you a certain tangible sense of energy. Your physical body seems to be indomitable and working on 3 hours of sleep seems doable. You're napping for half the time in every other class but still, you make through each year of school with what it seems like relatively little long-term physical and mental health problems. While high school was stressful, there was underlying sense that you could just keep on going. Why care about a couple days of missed sleep when you need that A- in APUSH so you can add an extra .1 to your final GPA?

Things only got worse during university. It always seemed like I was playing catch up the last time I dubiously stayed up to 4am to go "study" at the library with my friends but instead managed to find myself ordering a $5 tray of goodies at the nearest Cookout. On the nights before exams, I often would find myself desperately trying to stay awake through sheer will alone. Like slogging through a dense mud in the middle of a hazy marsh, each moment felt both long and short. In the most extreme case it felt like temporary psychosis. 

Thankfully, old habits do die hard sometimes. In the past 2.7 years working as a software engineer, I've had the fortune to never even come close to an allnighter. While there have been close calls debugging code into the late(TM) night it is much easier to maintain some semblance of a sleep schedule. The 9-5 life affords a few good hours to maintaining your body. Especially with the work from home situation these past two years, paying attention to my body has never been so high priority. I reflect back on my past struggles as a student and wonder how I even made it out in one piece. Was it worth it to sacrifice physical and mental wellbeing? Did I really come out the other end better?